Two competing thoughts can combine together into a higher tier thought, Pore le exampleh, One person thinks to put hand in fire (T1), but does not know that fire is hot -> person learns fire is hot, dont touch it. THen person sees someone wafting their finger over a lighter, they might think why did the fire not harm them (T1-2 Thought) They would need to add another thougght to make another T2 thought, such as flame is small. Combine into the flame didnt hurt as the fire is small. These T2 thoughts dont nessisarily go against eachother, but capture different parts of the whole. Thus can be converted to a T3 thought, but to do that properly, a knowledge of thermodynamics would be needed, which the tier of knowledge would be dependant on the person but would be T1-T3. DO note that higher tier thoughts can help "fill in" lower tier ones. The T3 thought would be the amount of heat transfered from waving a finger over a lighter is minimal compared to a larger fire. T4 thoughts are complex. So, T1 thoughts are generated from direct observation of fresh to the mind context. T1 thoughts that either partially or fully contradict themselves can be solved (either correctly, partially correctly or incorrectly) by a higher tier thought, this works its way through all the tiers. In order to make a T4 thought from the fire T3 thought we would need a contradicting T3 thought to arise, A t3 thought could also contradict, which can result in the T3 thought being upgraded to T3 or the T3 thought being changed. A T1 thought could challenge, is it incredibly unlikely to result in a T4. Though a large amount of T1's could have an effect, partially through upgrading themselves. WHen the brain is full of incorrect T1 thoughts this has a detrimental effect on the T2 T3 and T4 thoughts that arise from this. Since the higher tier thoughts also shape our lower tier thoughts, it can be difficult to introduce new T1 thoughts that are correct, as they will likely have to fight higher tier thoughts that are incorrect. For example, a flat-earther has that thought, if a new T1 thought comes in like if I look on the horizon I cant see any land, then they could make a T1-2 though to maintain the integrity of the flat earth thought. such as there is no land that way or the light is bending. T2 thought from that is the earth is flat, reaffirming their thoughts and generating positive feelings even though it's incorrect. T1 thoughts generate from either physical stymulus or emotion. Emotion generates from physical and thought based stymulus. He did not buy me flowers (T1), this makes me sad and angry (T1), why it causes that emotion is either a T2-3 thought dependning on the current thought structure relating to the event. An epithany is when you have 2 or more competiting thoughts and you figure out how to fix their contradictions, with the imperative that it was causing negativity and lots of time has been spent trying to figure it out. Its like OH! thats the answer!